[DO NOT MERGE UNTIL AGENT IS RELEASED, ETA 12/21] Java agent release 8.8.0 (#15503)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/java-release-notes/java-agent-880.mdx

security: [“Prevent license_key value from being written to the agent logs when using debug and/or audit_mode logging”]
---
<ButtonGroup>
  <ButtonLink
    role="button"
    to="https://download.newrelic.com/newrelic/java-agent/newrelic-agent/8.8.0/"
    variant="primary"
  >
    Download this agent version
  </ButtonLink>
</ButtonGroup>

## New features and improvements

* Add support for Jetty 12 of which will include Jetty’s implementation of the Jakarta EE 8, 9, and 10 specs. [1621](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1621)
* Add support for Vert.x versions 4.0.0 through 4.4.x [1588](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1588)
* Add NewRelic OpenTelemetry agent extension. This extension will be published as a separate library and will provide an implementation of our agent API that works with Open Telemetry, [1496](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1595)
* Add instrumentation for graphql-java 21 [1454](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1565)
* Instrument r2dbc-postgresql 0.9.2 till latest [1413](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1556)

> * For upcoming changes to our Synthetics Monitoring, we have added an additional Synthetics Header to identify the synthetics type, initiator and additional attributes for synthetics requests.  [1607](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1607)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For upcoming changes to our Synthetics Monitoring, we've added an additional Synthetics Header to identify the synthetics type, initiator and additional attributes for synthetics requests.  [1607](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1607)
```

  ```

System property:
```properties
-Dnewrelic.config.class_transformer.excludes=^javax/crypto/.*,^java/security/.*,^net/sf/saxon.*
  ```

Environment variable:
```properties
NEW_RELIC_CLASS_TRANSFORMER_EXCLUDES=^javax/crypto/.*,^java/security/.*,^net/sf/saxon.*
  ```
* Implement some NewRelic api methods such that our static API are wrappers over our interfaces in our public API [1584](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1584)

#### Security Agent

* Async HttpClient v2+ Support: The security agent now also supports Async HTTP client version 2 and above [142](https://github.com/newrelic/csec-java-agent/pull/142)
* Sun Net HTTP Server support: The security agent now supports Sun Net HTTP Server [142](https://github.com/newrelic/csec-java-agent/pull/142)
* Add APM trace information population in the event [142](https://github.com/newrelic/csec-java-agent/pull/142)
* WS headers added : NR-CSEC-ENTITY-GUID & NR-CSEC-ENTITY-NAME
JSON version bump to 1.1.1 [142](https://github.com/newrelic/csec-java-agent/pull/142)
* Add critical error logging via LogMessage event [142](https://github.com/newrelic/csec-java-agent/pull/142)

## Fixes

> * Fix transaction naming in Spring controllers with a CGLIB proxy. Transactions now use the actual class name as opposed to the proxied class name.  [1574](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1575)
> * Fix a `NullPointerException` caused by ServletContext in servlet instrumentation modules. [1636](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1636)
> * Fix a memory leak caused by Lettuce instrumentation. Duplicate code for  transaction linking has been removed from the Lettuce instrumentation and is handled by netty-reactor instead. [1608](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1608)
> * Fix a bug where invalidating a license key causes a memory leak. Reconnection tasks are now capped in the event of a `LicenseException`.   [1606](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1606)
> * Fix a `NullPointerException` caused by RPMServiceManager [1604](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1604)
> * Add a workaround for a memory leak that may occur in rare scenarios with instrumentation using the legacy async API in the Java Agent (which async servlets and Jetty Continuations use). [1555](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1555)
> 
> The option can be configured via the following means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix transaction naming in Spring controllers with a CGLIB proxy. Transactions now use the actual class name as opposed to the proxied class name.  [1574](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1575)
* Fix a `NullPointerException` caused by ServletContext in servlet instrumentation modules. [1636](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1636)
* Fix a memory leak caused by Lettuce instrumentation. Duplicate code for transaction linking has been removed from the Lettuce instrumentation and is handled by netty-reactor instead. [1608](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1608)
* Fix a bug where invalidating a license key causes a memory leak. Reconnection tasks are now capped in the event of a `LicenseException`.   [1606](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1606)
* Fix a `NullPointerException` caused by RPMServiceManager [1604](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1604)
* Add a workaround for a memory leak that may occur in rare scenarios with instrumentation using the legacy async API in the Java Agent (which async servlets and Jetty Continuations use). [1555](https://github.com/newrelic/newrelic-java-agent/pull/1555)

The option can be configured via the following means:
```

- `play-2.3`
- `spring-3.0.0`
- `netty-3.4`
- `Struts v1`

## Update to latest version [#procedures]

To identify which version of the Java agent you're currently using, run `java -jar newrelic.jar -v`. Your Java agent version will be printed to your console.

Then, to update to the latest Java agent version:

1. Back up the **entire** [Java agent root directory](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/troubleshooting/find-agent-root-directory#java-agent) to another location. Rename that directory to `NewRelic_Agent#.#.#`, where `#.#.#` is the agent version number.
2. [Download the agent.](/docs/release-notes/agent-release-notes/java-release-notes)
3. Unzip the new agent download file, then copy `newrelic-api.jar` and `newrelic.jar` into the original [Java agent root directory](/docs/agents/manage-apm-agents/troubleshooting/find-agent-root-directory#java-agent).
4. Compare your old `newrelic.yml` with the newly downloaded `newrelic.yml` from the zip, and [update the file if needed](#diff).
5. Restart your Java dispatcher.

If you experience issues after the Java agent update, restore from the backed-up New Relic agent directory.

## Update agent config differences [#diff]

> We add new settings to `newrelic.yml` as we release new versions of the agent. You can use `diff` or another diffing utility to see what's changed, and add the new config settings to your old file. Make sure not to overwrite any customizations you've made to the file, such as your license key, app name, or changes to default settings.
> 
> For example, if you `diff` the default `newrelic.yml` files for Java agent versions 7.10.0 and 7.11.0, the results printed to the console will be like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We add new settings to `newrelic.yml` as we release new versions of the agent. You can use `diff` or another diffing utility to see what's changed, and add the new config settings to your old file. Make sure not to overwrite any customizations you've made to the file, such as your license key, app name, or changes to default settings.

For example, if you `diff` the default `newrelic.yml` files for Java agent versions 7.10.0 and 7.11.0, the results printed to the console will be like this:
```
